A mysterious bat-like creature terrorizes Gotham City, causing the police force to pursue Batman. The Dark Knight must find the real perpetrator to clear his name.
After escaping Arkham Asylum on Christmas Eve, the Joker takes over Gotham's airwaves and terrorizes the city. He challenges Batman and Robin to find his hidden TV studio and free his hostages – Commissioner Gordon, Detective Bullock and Summer Gleeson – before midnight.
Batman encounters the Scarecrow and attempts to foil his scheme to burn down Gotham University, but in the process is exposed to the Scarecrow's fear gas and forced to face his guilt over the death of his parents.
The Joker covers Gotham City in a cloud of laughing gas and begins plundering the crazed city. After Alfred Pennyworth is infected with the toxin, Batman has added incentive to stop the Joker and acquire an antidote from him before all of Gotham dies with a smile.
When District Attorney Harvey Dent (who has not yet become the villain Two-Face) collapses after a meal with his fiancée Pamela Isley and friend Bruce Wayne, doctors discover that he has been poisoned. Batman must find the culprit and the antidote before Harvey dies.
Batman traces a series of bizarre robberies to a band of homeless children living in Gotham's sewers who have been raised to do the bidding of their master, the Sewer King.
A botched police operation results in the suspension of those involved: Officer Wilkes, Officer Renee Montoya, and Detective Bullock. Interrogated by their superiors, they each tell differing tales of what happened that night.
While investigating the disappearances of Gotham's homeless in an undercover disguise, Bruce Wayne is kidnapped and imprisoned in a chain gang mining camp, suffering from amnesia. Alfred must thus track him down, help him escape, and free the rest of the prisoners.
Mayor Hamilton Hill's neglected son, Jordan, rebels when his father uses his birthday party as a political gathering rather than a normal celebration, stowing away in the truck of the party clown hired by Hill for the party, who unknown to him is the Joker in disguise. It is now up to Batman, whom Mayor Hill distrusts, to rescue the boy before it is too late.
Mobster Rupert Thorne attempts to use Harvey Dent's secret split personality to blackmail him. But when Dent meets with Thorne at a chemical plant, "Big Bad Harv" takes over, and the resulting confrontation leads to an explosion that scars half of Dent's body.
Harvey Dent, now under the control of his alternate personality, begins calling himself Two-Face and starts robbing Rupert Thorne's illegal businesses, leading to a final confrontation with the crime boss. Batman must stop his former friend before he and Thorne kill each other.
A mob war between crime bosses Rupert Thorne and Arnold Stromwell leads to a supposed peace talk where Stromwell is set up to be killed in an explosion by Thorne, but Batman saves him at the last moment. Aided by Stromwell's brother (a priest who lost a leg in a childhood accident for which Stromwell carries secret guilt), Batman tries to persuade Stromwell to give up his life of crime and help the police bring Thorne down by testifying against him.
During a fight with Batman over a stolen Fabergé egg, the Penguin incapacitates Batman with poison gas. The Dark Knight is rescued by young amateur detective Sherman Grant and his friend Roberta, who hide Batman in Sherman's basement so he can recover before the Penguin finds them.
Embittered scientist Victor Fries, calling himself Mr. Freeze, attacks several divisions of GothCorp, each time stealing a piece for a secret weapon he intends to build. Batman investigates the connections and discovers that the start of Freeze's vendetta against GothCorp was a bitter falling out between Fries and GothCorp's CEO, Ferris Boyle, during which Boyle almost killed Fries (turning him into Freeze) and presumably killed Fries' terminally ill wife Nora. Batman must find a way to bring Boyle to justice before Freeze carries out his revenge.
Batman encounters a new cat burglar calling herself Catwoman. Around the same time, as Bruce Wayne, he meets a woman named Selina Kyle, to whom he is instantly attracted without knowing her secret identity. When Catwoman discovers that a terrorist group known as The Red Claw has built a base in the mountain lion sanctuary she was trying to protect, she decides to take matters into her own hands.
The leader of The Red Claw (known herself only as Red Claw) attacks a military train and steals a viral plague which she intends to release in Gotham City if she isn't paid a ransom. Batman and Catwoman must put aside their differences and work together to stop Red Claw before it is too late.
Lloyd Ventrix is on the verge of losing his daughter Kimberly to his ex-wife Helen due to his past as a con artist. Determined not to lose Kimberly, Ventrix dons a suit stolen from a laboratory where he used to work; it grants the user invisibility but its high toxicity will slowly cause insanity in the wearer. Helen does not know that Kimberly's "imaginary friend" Mojo is the invisible Ventrix; after winning Kimberly's trust, he plans to abduct her. Batman must solve the mysterious crimes and stop Ventrix, even though he cannot see him.
Simon Trent, an older actor best known for his starring role in the classic television series "The Gray Ghost", is on the verge of bankruptcy due to his declining career, and begins selling Gray Ghost merchandise to pay rent. Meanwhile, a series of bombings is occurring which resemble the plot of an episode of "The Gray Ghost". Batman, having been inspired partly by the show to become a crime fighter, goes to Trent for help and they team up to find the bomber.
Batman investigates a cult called the Brotherhood, founded by the "mystic" Nostromos, after hearing several stories about his ability to predict the future. Batman finds out that Nostromos is a con artist who was rigging near-fatal accidents to gain the confidence of Gotham's upper-class citizens, and he must expose this ruse before it is too late.
Bruce Wayne is framed for the attempted murder of Wayne Enterprises executive Lucius Fox. The real perpetrator is an actor and master of disguise named Matt Hagen, who was disfigured in a car accident years ago. To keep his fame, he secretly started working for Roland Daggett, who wants to take over Wayne Enterprises. Daggett provides Hagen with a regular supply of an addictive face cream known as Renuyu that can temporarily restore Hagen's disfigured face. This allows him to continue to act professionally, but also gives him the ability to reshape his face to resemble other people. After failing to murder Fox due to Batman's interference, Hagen's supply is cut off. When he breaks into Daggett's lab for more Renuyu, Daggett's men force-feed him the formula, expecting him to die. Meanwhile, Bruce Wayne is arrested and taken into custody, charged with the assault on Fox.
Bruce Wayne is released from prison on bail. Hagen survives the assault by Daggett's men, but is transformed into a shapeshifting mutant. With his newfound powers, Hagen, now calling himself Clayface, decides to get revenge on Daggett, and Batman must bring Daggett to justice and stop Clayface before innocent people are hurt.
After a man named Charlie Collins accidentally curses at the Joker for bad driving, Joker corners him and tells him that he can go free if he does an unspecified "small favor" in the future. Two years pass, and the Joker finally decides how to use Charlie: to sneak a bomb into the Peregrinator's Club, where Commissioner Gordon is to give a speech at an award ceremony. The small favor is that Charlie simply needs to hold a door open as part of the plan. Because his family is threatened, he reluctantly decides to obey.
Detective Bullock is arrested for kidnapping. Batman, who dislikes Bullock but believes him to be an honest cop, investigates and discovers the identity of the real criminal: Killer Croc, who harbors a vendetta against Bullock for capturing him once. Batman must clear Bullock's name before it is too late.
The Scarecrow invents a fear chemical activated by adrenaline and uses it to affect the outcome of athletic events on which he has bet. Robin catches onto the plan when a fellow college student is exposed to the chemical, and he and Batman investigate.
After following advice from attorney Hamilton Hill, efficiency expert Temple Fugate makes an error which causes his company to lose a court case against a company represented by the firm where Hill works. As a result, Fugate suffers a mental breakdown. Seven years later, Hill is now Gotham's mayor and running for re-election, and Fugate, now known as the Clock King, plans to discredit and kill him. Batman must stop Fugate from carrying out his revenge and save the mayor's life.
With the help of arsonists, Roland Daggett plans to destroy a poor neighborhood nicknamed "Crime Alley" and use the land to expand his business empire. Batman must stop Daggett's men and save a captured Leslie Thompkins, who helped a young Bruce Wayne cope with the loss of his parents.
Awkward scientist Jervis Tetch, who is developing brain interface devices for Wayne Industries, is unable to find a way to get close to his crush, office secretary Alice. When she splits up with her boyfriend, he makes an advance and develops a fast friendship with her until her boyfriend reconciles with her and proposes to her. Enraged, Tetch decides to take matters into his own hands. He dons the mantle of the Mad Hatter, using his mind-control devices to make Alice his and avenge those who have wronged him.
Batman is committed to Arkham Asylum after exposure to the Scarecrow's fear toxin, but he knows that the Scarecrow is planning to poison Gotham's water supply with the same fear-inducing chemical. Batman must overcome his amplified fears and hallucinations and escape from Arkham before the Scarecrow brings Gotham to its knees.
Several rich industrialists, all having something to do with the destruction of plant life, are disappearing after being invited to the Eternal Youth Health Spa. Bruce Wayne also receives an invitation (one of his greedy directors nearly made the deal to destroy a rainforest before Bruce forced him to shut the operation down). Bruce passes his invitations on to Alfred and his lady friend Maggie and they go in his place. When they do not return, Batman investigates, discovering that Poison Ivy runs the spa and that she has been using a formula to turn the industrialists into trees, including Alfred and Maggie.
Bruce Wayne wakes up one morning to find that his life has completely changed: his parents are alive, the Batcave does not exist, Alfred does not know anyone named Robin, and Bruce is engaged to Selina Kyle, who is not Catwoman. Batman, a separate individual from himself, continue to fight crime in Gotham City. Bruce gradually begins to accept this new life, but it may be too good to be true.
Baron Jozek, furious at Batman for humiliating him with an intrusion and interrogation while he is at a dinner party with his underworld connections, hires Josiah Wormwood, a master in setting traps, to hunt down Batman and bring back the hero's cape and cowl.
During a fight with some gangsters at a construction yard, Batman and Robin learn the name of their boss: Billy Marin. While Robin looks forward to going up against Marin, Batman becomes distant and doesn't allow Robin to accompany him on the search for Marin, leading to a falling out at the Batcave. Robin investigates with the Batcomputer and soon realizes that Billy Marin is not the boss' real name. Rather, it is an alias of Tony Zucco, the man who killed his parents John and Mary Grayson. Batman chose not to tell Robin out of concern that he would desire vengeance against Zucco.
Angered by Batman's deceit, Robin sets out to find Tony Zucco on his own, while reliving the memories of his parents' deaths and how Bruce took him in as his adopted son at age eight. Eventually, Batman finds Zucco at an old amusement park but breaks his leg during the fight. Robin finally arrives and prepares to kill Zucco in vengeance.
Joker creates a toxin that affects only fish, mutating them to have smiling faces similar to his. Then he targets an innocent man who refuses to copyright his Joker fish. The Joker also captures Harvey Bullock, and Batman must rescue him and foil Joker's scheme.
A mysterious ninja is robbing Wayne Enterprises subsidiaries, and Batman discovers that the ninja is his equal in combat. A grudge against Bruce Wayne and skills to match him can only mean one person: Kyodai Ken. A rival and fellow student under Wayne's old sensei in Japan, Ken was thrown out of the dojo after attempting to rob it and being stopped by Wayne. Ken, it turns out, wants revenge.
Batman must stop Roland Daggett's plan to release a viral plague designed by Professor Milo to be introduced into Gotham through stray animals. The case gains new urgency when Catwoman becomes infected with the virus while searching for her missing cat Isis. Batman must find an antidote to save the woman who loves him most.
After a prominent judge is injured during a struggle with some thugs demanding money from her in exchange for a mysterious tape, Bruce Wayne decides to take a trip to a Yucca Springs resort where the judge had vacationed and consulted the in-house psychiatrist Hugo Strange. Bruce learns that Strange has invented a machine that extracts people's darkest secrets from their minds and transfers them to videotape – but only after Strange records proof of Bruce's secret identity and plans to auction it to three of Gotham's most prominent criminals.
Several robberies occur at major companies including Wayne Enterprises, and Bruce Wayne, as Batman, discovers the thief is a walking mechanical briefcase. After failing to catch it, Bruce meets with his old friend Karl Rossum, a robotics expert who lost his daughter to a vehicle accident years ago. He also meets Rossum's assistant, Randa Duane, and Rossum's ultimate creation: a prototype AI known as Holographic Analytical Reciprocating Digital Computer (HARDAC). Bruce invites Duane to dinner. Around the same time, certain important members of the public start acting unlike themselves and distant. Most surprising is when Duane unexpectedly leaves Wayne Manor while Bruce is on the phone, and the Batcave security system turns on Batman.
Batman manages to free himself from the Batcave's security system and bring it back under his control, although he fails to track down Ms. Duane. Barbara Gordon approaches Batman to inform him of her father's sudden change in behavior. A brutal fight between Batman and Detective Bullock ensues, during which Batman damages Bullock and discovers him to be an android, revealing that the real Bullock and James Gordon have gone missing. Batman knows who the culprit is: HARDAC. Batman must stop the evil supercomputer before it completes its replacement plan.
Edward Nygma creates the popular video game Riddle of the Minotaur for his employer, but his superior Daniel Mockridge fires him after he sues for royalties. Nygma vows revenge and adopts the identity of the Riddler. While Batman sympathizes with Nygma's grievance, he and Robin must stop the Riddler before he kills Mockridge in a life-sized version of the Minotaur maze with a working minotaur.
Cameron Kaiser builds a casino hotel themed around the Joker called "The Joker's Wild". From Arkham Asylum, the Joker sees this on the news and is enraged. He escapes from Arkham again with one thought – destroying the casino – unaware that this is exactly what Kaiser wants him to do.
Selina Kyle is kidnapped by the villainous genetic engineer Dr. Emile Dorian and transformed into a humanoid cat, providing his man-cat hybrid named Tygrus with a mate. Batman attempts to rescue Selina, but is captured and used to test Dorian's greatest creation, as Tygrus hunts Batman through the island's jungles.
Batman investigates the appearance of a werewolf-like creature in Gotham, not realizing that the monster happens to be one of Bruce Wayne's associates — Anthony Romulus, ex-Olympic champion. Behind the scheme is twisted chemist Professor Milo.
Kyodai Ken kidnaps Kairi Tanaga, star pupil of Yoru-sensei, the martial arts instructor who taught both Kyodai and Bruce. The ninja's ransom for her is a scroll which reveals the location of the fabled Death Touch technique.
When a giant bat ransacks a Gotham harbor, Batman suspects that Kirk Langstrom has recreated the forbidden Man-Bat formula and is taking it again. Kirk's wife Francine shares his suspicion of her husband and leaves him. As he investigates, Batman discovers that this Man-Bat is not Kirk after all.
The Joker, Killer Croc, the Penguin, Two-Face, and Poison Ivy meet at a poker table, each telling a tale of a time when they almost defeated Batman. At the same time, Harley Quinn is about to kill Catwoman after she rescues Batman from the Joker's electric chair, and Batman must save her.
Veronica Vreeland is looking for a way to create a splash with her next high society party and arrives at the idea of inviting a famous reformed criminal, the Penguin, who she finds to have comical fish-out-of-water mannerisms. Veronica convinces the Penguin to attend her party, intending him to be a laughingstock, but begins to genuinely like him. For his part, the Penguin falls in love with her until he overhears that he is being used as the butt of a joke.
Seeking to prove that he is the superior mind, the Riddler lures Batman into a riddle-solving contest inside a virtual reality game to save Commissioner Gordon's life. While solving the riddles and escaping the Riddler's traps, Batman learns that he can manipulate the virtual reality landscape much like the Riddler does.
On the anniversary of the death of Bruce's parents, Batman accompanies Leslie Thompkins to Crime Alley to place roses on the spot where they were gunned down. Meanwhile, Commissioner Gordon is on a stakeout to arrest Jimmy "The Jazzman" Peake during a drug smuggling operation. Batman had promised to be there but arrives late to find the police caught in a gun battle. He helps defeat the gangsters and arrest the Jazzman, but not before Gordon is severely wounded. The incident traumatizes Batman, and he contemplates giving up his crime-fighting career. However the Jazzman has escaped prison intending to carry out his vendetta against Gordon, who had sent him to prison six years before.
While following Count Vertigo's trail, Batman encounters Talia al Ghul, the daughter of the head of the Society of Shadows, who was sent by her father to prevent the capture of a sonic drill that the Count stole. After his identity is accidentally revealed to Talia, Batman is unsure as to where her true loyalties lie.
When small-time gang member Sidney "Sid the Squid" Debris seemingly kills Batman by accident, his newfound reputation vaults him into the upper stratum of the criminal element in Gotham. He meets the Joker and Rupert Thorne, neither of whom believe his claim that everything happened by pure luck. Sidney soon begins to realize that his reputation is a greater liability than an asset.
Clayface's body is no longer stable and rapidly falling apart. A scientist he knew from his movie star days is working on a remedy, but Hagen is forced to steal money to pay for the expensive components of the remedy – and one of his targets is Wayne Biomedical Labs.
Matthew Thorne, a doctor who lost his medical license and was subsequently forced into becoming the "crime doctor" by his older brother, crime boss Rupert Thorne, must perform delicate surgery on Rupert. He can't do it alone and kidnaps Leslie Thompkins to assist. Batman discovers Leslie's disappearance and rushes to track her down – and has an additional interest in Matthew because he was a medical school classmate of Bruce Wayne's father, Thomas.
When the glamorous magician Zatanna is framed for a robbery during her act, Batman swings to her defense. Zatanna is grateful, though a little puzzled, by Batman's commitment to proving her innocence. Still, the two heroes unite and use the skills her father Zatara taught them to expose and combat the culprit: an evil illusionist named Montague Kane.
Thanks to an accident during a high-speed chase, the Batmobile is virtually demolished. When Batman takes the car to his mechanic Earl Cooper, the Penguin discovers the repair shop and tampers with the Batmobile, putting it under his control.
When the Joker fires Harley for her incompetence, she tries going on a crime spree of her own, joining up with Poison Ivy, and the two become Gotham's Queens of Crime, much to the Joker's displeasure.
When Commissioner Gordon is framed with allegations of taking bribes from Rupert Thorne, his daughter Barbara pleads with Batman to attend a rally on the commissioner's behalf. But when Batman disappears after finding the person behind the frame-up, Barbara takes the law into her hands as Batgirl.
Robin discovers that Gil Mason is in league with the underworld and goes to investigate him. He encounters Batgirl, and together they learn that Mason is working with Two-Face to take out Gordon and have Batman (as Matches Malone) captured.
The Penguin steals an experimental helicopter from an air show, causing an explosion that temporarily blinds Bruce Wayne. Batman knows he won't be able to wait until his vision returns to apprehend the Penguin, and builds a high-tech visor to grant him a limited form of vision.
Talia al Ghul and Robin are both kidnapped, forcing Batman and Ra's al Ghul into an uneasy truce to rescue them.
After freeing Talia from her father's clutches and escaping from an avalanche, Batman and Robin follow their only clue – the word "Orpheus". After discovering that "Orpheus" is Al Ghul's private satellite that passes over the Sahara, the duo travel to his desert stronghold. There, Batman learns that Al Ghul is planning to detonate bombs in Lazarus Pits throughout the world, killing billions of people in an attempt to restore natural balance.
When a robotic Batman impersonator appears in Gotham City, the real Batman deduces that Karl Rossum (from "Heart of Steel") is involved and confronts the inventor of HARDAC, who knows nothing of any surviving robots produced by the supercomputer. After the robotic Batman experiences an identity crisis and realizes it is not the real Batman, its programming takes over and it begins restoring HARDAC's program so the computer can resume its campaign to replace humans with robots.
Believing himself to be the reincarnation of Zeus, Maximillian Zeus steals an experimental electric cannon, planning to use it to rule from his skyscraper, "Mount Olympus", high above Gotham City.
A new gang has made its debut by committing slickly-executed crimes masterminded by gang leader Scarface, but Scarface turns out to be a puppet handled by his "dummy", the Ventriloquist.
Wealthy socialite Veronica Vreeland returns from Central America, bringing tiny handmade dolls for all her friends. According to native legend, once placed under a pillow, the dolls do the sleeper's worrying for them. However they are actually made by the Mad Hatter and contain small, mind-controlling microchips.
En route to an upstate prison, Killer Croc escapes and leads Batman on a dangerous chase through the wilderness. After throwing Batman temporarily off his trail, the reptile-man takes refuge with a group of retired circus freaks and befriends them under false pretenses. When Batman arrives, Croc and the performers band together to capture him.
Someone has put a hit out on Gotham's toughest cop, Harvey Bullock. After surviving several near misses, Bullock realizes he has no choice but to ask his arch-rival Batman to help him discover who is behind the murder attempts. During their investigation, Bullock learns that his gruff and mean-spirited manner has created enemies in the unlikeliest people.
Gotham's new district attorney Janet Van Dorn is no fan of vigilante Batman, but both end up captured by Batman's greatest enemies after a prison riot in Arkham Asylum. They are then put on trial by the Joker (judge) and Two-Face (prosecutor) with the Ventriloquist as bailiff and a plainly biased jury of Poison Ivy, Harley Quinn, the Mad Hatter, Killer Croc, the Scarecrow, and the Riddler. Though clearly a kangaroo trial, Van Dorn is told that if she serves as Batman's defense attorney and proves that Batman is not the cause of these villains' criminal behavior, they will both be set free. But the villains have little intention of following through on their deal.
Ra's al Ghul steals a mystic Egyptian scroll donated to the Gotham Museum by Bruce Wayne. Batman and Talia must join forces to prevent her mentally unstable father from unlocking the scroll's mystic secrets of life and death. Their quest takes them to a hidden temple deep beneath the Egyptian desert where Batman battles an ancient sorceress.
Poison Ivy has not only been released from Arkham Asylum but has also married her doctor and settled down to help him raise his two sons. It would appear that Ivy has gone straight and that her old days as a criminal are over, but wealthy bachelors are being struck down by an unknown toxin, leaving Batman questioning Ivy's innocence.
Three wealthy, bored youths seek new thrills by becoming master criminals. As animal-themed robbers Fox, Shark, and Vulture (masters of land, sea, and air), the Terrible Trio pick Gotham clean until they come to the attention of Batman.
The Joker steals an atomic bomb and it is up to Batman and Robin to find and stop him, with Harley Quinn's help.
The Clock King returns to continue his vendetta against Mayor Hill. This time, the time-obsessed criminal hopes to murder Hill with the help of a stolen invention that allows him to warp time and travel at super speed. Securing a second device from its creator, Batman and Robin takes on the Clock King in a furious high-speed battle for the mayor's life.
Anxious to take up her old ways as Catwoman, Selina Kyle joins the Ventriloquist to humiliate Veronica Vreeland. But the real victim is Catwoman herself, who Scarface has secretly set up to take the fall for another robbery.
Batman comes face-to-face with his most powerful adversary yet: the chemically-enhanced assassin Bane. Originally hired by Rupert Thorne to kill Batman, Bane plans to control Thorne's criminal empire once Batman is destroyed.
A washed-up actress named Mary Dahl has become bitter and insane after falling into obscurity and suffering from a disorder that prevents her body from growing to adulthood, thus biologically cursed with perpetual childhood. She kidnaps her former co-stars, resentful of their continued success, and holds them prisoner on the abandoned stage of her old show. While Robin works fast to free the actors from Baby-Doll's explosive death trap, Batman pursues her through a deadly carnival funhouse.
The Red Claw organization kidnaps Alfred, seeking a code for arming a weapon of mass destruction that he knows from his days as a British secret agent.
Ra's al Ghul remembers a time in his past (the Wild West of the 1880s) in which Jonah Hex stopped him and his son Arkady Duvall's plan to destroy the transcontinental railroad using a war blimp.
Vowing to turn over a new leaf, the Riddler is hired to work for a toy company. But Batman suspects that the Riddler is still obsessed with outsmarting and defeating him.
Just before Harvey Dent is to undergo surgery to fix the damage to his face in the hopes that it will give him the mental stability needed to erase his Two-Face persona, he is kidnapped by a gang with an unknown leader. Batman and Robin split up to find who abducted Bruce Wayne's old friend, suspecting that the Penguin or Rupert Thorne may be behind the kidnapping.
Harley Quinn is released back into society after being given a clean bill of mental health by Arkham Asylum. However, a misunderstanding at a clothing store leads to her returning to crime. Batman and Robin attempt to help her before she lands herself back in confinement.
Lyle Bolton, the new head of security at Arkham, is fired for his atrocious mistreatment of the inmates. Six months later, Bolton becomes the vigilante Lock-Up and decides to put behind bars those who he feels are responsible for the city's ruin.
Using microchips stolen from the Mad Hatter, the Joker brainwashes famous comedians into committing crimes to ruin their reputations. The comedians had served as the judges who tossed the Joker out of the Gotham Comedy Competition the year before, and the Clown Prince of Crime wants revenge.
Mr. Freeze is sprung from Arkham by aging billionaire Grant Walker, who is looking to replicate his immortality. Batman and Robin infiltrate the billionaire's underwater city and combat both high-tech robots and Mr. Freeze himself, who has decided to do Walker's bidding and cover the earth in a new ice age.
While Bruce is in Europe on a Wayne Enterprises business trip, the theft of a jade cat statue occurs at Gotham State University. Barbara Gordon investigates as Batgirl, only to run into Catwoman, who claims she is also investigating and that the theft was not her style. The two team up to find the statue, with Robin tailing them, and Roland Daggett is revealed to be involved.
Based on the comic The Batman Adventures Holiday Special.
Young delinquent Tim Drake becomes Batman's new ward after getting caught up in one of Two-Face's deadly plots.
After his wife Nora was cured in Batman & Mr. Freeze: SubZero, and subsequently left him for another man, Mr. Freeze has become embittered and nihilistic, devoted to destroying things that other people value.
Arnold Wesker is released from Arkham Asylum, free of his Scarface persona thanks to extensive therapy. However, Scarface's old gang needs their boss back, and secretly plots to revive Wesker's split personality.
To further distance himself from Batman, Dick Grayson tries to go it alone as Nightwing to stop a smuggling ring and gets unexpected help from the seductive Catwoman, who seems to take a liking to him.
The Scarecrow develops a new toxin that eliminates fear, making ordinary people reckless and dangerous. Batman has been exposed to it, and it's now up to Robin to save his mentor and foil Scarecrow's plot.
Crime boss Edward "King" Barlowe dies, and to everyone's surprise, his will leaves 250 million dollars to his hated rival, the Joker. No longer needing to resort to robbery for funds, the Joker immediately goes on a legal shopping spree, even searching for a replacement for Harley Quinn, but realizes too late that most of the money is fake.
Robin fights to protect a young girl with amnesia named Annie. She is being stalked by her "father", who turns out to be Clayface. Having created the girl from his own body to scout out the city, he now intends to reabsorb her, but in her time apart from him she has forgotten her mission and developed her own personality.
Baby-Doll becomes enamored with Killer Croc, with the two becoming an improbable yet successful criminal duo. However, their partnership falls apart when Baby-Doll learns that Croc is only using her to further his criminal career.
A lovelorn pyrotechnics engineer, Garfield Lynns, gets dumped by a big-time singer named Cassidy. Lynns takes on the identity of Firefly, bent on revenge.
Stuntwoman and adrenaline junkie Roxanne Sutton, having been fired for her obsession with dangerous stunts, becomes the rocket-riding thief Roxy Rocket to find new heights of danger and excitement.
Batgirl is pushed off a rooftop and killed during a fight with the Scarecrow. Having witnessed his daughter's demise, Jim Gordon blames Batman and vows revenge, recruiting Bane in the process. A nightmare scenario begins for Batman as he is hunted down, but is it one he can wake up from?
Page Monroe, a model who is considered past her prime and can no longer find work is now looking for revenge on the fashion industry. Despite still being beautiful, she now considers herself ugly, hiding her face behind a mask and calling herself Calendar Girl.
A genetic engineer, Farmer Brown, goes overboard in creating bigger livestock in an attempt to address world hunger and loses all his money. A year later, he creates an army of mutant animals to terrorize Gotham.
Batman tries to help Catwoman, who is being chased by a cat-themed cult after stealing a statue from them.
A series of thefts is committed by circus animals in a town where Nightwing's old circus is performing. Is it an old friend training the animals to steal or someone else?
When on patrol on his own, Robin runs into Nightwing, and he tells Robin the story of how he and Batman grew apart. The story relates how Batgirl discovered the real identities of Batman and the original Robin, and what later went wrong with Barbara and Dick's relationship.
Batman and Robin assist occultist Jason Blood when Klarion the Witch Boy uses a magic branding iron to separate him from and take control of his alter-ego, Etrigan. Having been given immortality by the same curse that bound him to Etrigan, this also causes Blood to begin aging rapidly, so Batman and Robin must reunite with Etrigan and defeat Klarion before he dies.
A group of Gotham City youths tells their stories about what they believe the Dark Knight to be like. With varying art and storytelling styles, this episode acknowledges the works of Bill Finger, Dick Sprang, and Frank Miller.
Livewire, Poison Ivy, and Harley Quinn join forces to wreak havoc in Gotham. With Batman and Superman away, Batgirl and Supergirl must team up to stop them.
Harley reflects on her first meeting with the Joker as she plots to eliminate her main competition for his attention – Batman.
Bruce Wayne, along with other wealthy denizens of Gotham, fall in love with their ideal mates, who all have green eyes. Bruce uncharacteristically decides to marry and give up being Batman forever.
While at the Ace Chemicals plant reporting on the anniversary of the Joker's creation, Jack Ryder is attacked by the Joker himself, with exposure to chemicals and the Joker's laughing gas transforming him into the crazed Creeper. He plans to kill the Joker out of revenge, and develops an unrequited crush on Harley.
When a new vigilante, the Judge, uses lethal force to battle Gotham's criminals, Batman must figure out his true identity.
